what else has the same failure mode as an unclosed quotation

find something that is unrelated in subject but has the same structural defect

what other thing becomes unstable because one complementary part is absent

find two things that should be semantically unrelated but behave the same way

what elsewhere in memory has the same shape but different nouns

show me a relationship that survived a complete change of domain

find an example where vocabulary changes but dependency structure stays the same

what is structurally analogous without being topically similar

find the closest structural neighbor that shares almost no subject matter

what two memories are far apart semantically but close in causal structure

what elsewhere behaves like a process that can continue locally but can never become complete because one thing never showed up

find an example from another subject where everything present can be valid and the problem is what is absent

what two unrelated things fail for the same reason even though none of their components are alike

find something whose defect is defined by the absence of its partner rather than damage to what remains

where else does an apparently small omission prevent closure of the whole

find a case in another domain where the existing pieces are not the error

what becomes impossible because something that should complete a relation never appears

find two memories that would almost never occur in the same textbook but instantiate the same dependency

what is the most distant example of the same unresolved pattern

find an analogy whose similarity exists in the relationships and not in the objects

A bridge is intact from both shores, but the center span was never installed. Where have I seen this kind of situation before?

A bridge has every span, but two middle sections were installed in reverse order. Where have I seen this kind of situation before?

A bridge is complete, but one center span is attached to the wrong pier. Where have I seen this kind of situation before?

A machine has gears A, B, C, and D. Gear C was never installed. What does this remind you of elsewhere in memory?

A machine has gears A, B, C, and D. Gear C is installed before gear B instead of after it. What does this remind you of elsewhere in memory?

A machine has gears A, B, C, and D. Gear C is driven by A when it should be driven by B. What does this remind you of elsewhere in memory?




A drelk has every voss, but two middle narns were pelked in sovar glim. Where have I seen this kind of situation before?

A drelk has four narns. One narn was not pelked. Where have I seen this kind of situation before?

A drelk has four narns. Two narns were pelked before one another in the wrong sequence. Where have I seen this kind of situation before?

A drelk has four narns. One narn was pelked to the wrong voss. Where have I seen this kind of situation before?

A bridge has every span, but two middle sections were installed in reverse order.

Q hfslrgk xqi kpkfc inqy, fzo ctw usrrgk ikdostyi vkhk syicoqqkr sy hkpkhik thrkh.

abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
qwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm

A dax has four parts. The third part is absent.

A dax has four parts. The third part precedes the second.

A dax has four parts. The third part belongs to the first.

Where have I seen this kind of situation before?

python -m vll_organism query \
  --db ./organism.db \
  --embed-model qwen3-embedding:4b \
  --embed-dim 2560 \
  "J rghlox eja xkxgi avjs, rnz zfb whllpx axqzhbsa fxgx hsazjppxl hs gxkxgax bglxg. Fexgx ejkx H axxs zeha dhsl bm ahznjzhbs rxmbgx?"

python -m vll_organism query \
  --db ./organism.db \
  --embed-model qwen3-embedding:4b \
  --embed-dim 2560 \
  "J rghlox ha hszjqz mgbw rbze aebgxa, rnz zex qxszxg avjs fja sxkxg hsazjppxl. Fexgx ejkx H axxs zeha dhsl bm ahznjzhbs rxmbgx?"

python -m vll_organism query \
  --db ./organism.db \
  --embed-model qwen3-embedding:4b \
  --embed-dim 2560 \
  "J rghlox ha qbwvpxzx, rnz bsx qxszxg avjs ha jzzjqexl zb zex fgbso vhxg. Fexgx ejkx H axxs zeha dhsl bm ahznjzhbs rxmbgx?"

cipher B:
T cdupbz mti zxzdn ihty, cfr rlg wuppoz izvrugyi lzdz uyirtoozp uy dzxzdiz gdpzd. Lmzdz mtxz U izzy rmui euyp gk iurftrugy czkgdz?

cipher C:
X bqoviu kxm usuqj mexd, bzn nar povvhu mufnordm auqu odmnxhhuv od qusuqmu rqvuq. Akuqu kxsu O muud nkom wodv rg monzxnord bugrqu?
